A [[Moment|moment]] matching algorithm maps a general probability distribution,$G$, into a [[Phase Type Distribution (PH)|PH distribution]], $P$. A PH distribution is a combination of exponential distributions, and a mixture of exponential distributions. More formally, a PH distribution is defined as the distribution of the time until absorption in a Markov chain. Thus, essentially, a moment matching algorithm takes a general probability distribution, $G$, as an input, and outputs a Markov chain with an absorbing state together with together with the probability vector for the initial state, such that some moments of the distribution of the absorption time in the Markov chain (the PH distribution, $P$) agree with those of $G$. By convention, when the Markov chain has $n$ states, we say that the PH distribution has $n$ phases.

The general approach in designing moment matching algorithms in the literature is to start by defining a subset $S$ of the PH distributions, and then map each input distribution $G$ into a distribution in $S$. The reason for limiting the solution to a distribution in $S$ is that this narrows the search space and thus improves the computational efficiency of the algorithm. One has to be careful in defining the subset $S$, however. If $S$ is too small it may exclude solutions with a minimal number of phases. Also, if $S$ is too small, it may limit the class of input distributions, or it may limit the number of moments that can be matched. Also, if $S$ is too small it may limit the class of input distributions, or it may limit the number of moments that can be matched.


The key idea in our moment matching algorithm is the way that we define the subset, $S$, of PH distributions, which we call [Erlang-Coxian distribution](Phase%20Type%20Distribution%20(PH)#Coxian%20PH%20distribution) The EC distribution has only six free parameters, regardless of the number of phases, which allows us to derive a closed form solution for these parameters in terms of the moments of the input distribution. This is in contrast to the general PH distribution, as an $n$-phase PH distribution has $\Theta(n^2)$ free parameters. Furthermore, the class of EC distributions is broad enough to excel in the other three desired properties. In particular, the EC distribution allows us to match the first three moments of the input distribution, and it applies to the broadest possible class of input distributions (almost all nonnegative distributions). Also, the number of phases used in the output EC distribution is nearly minimal. Below, we sahy that distribution $G$ is well-represented by $P$ if $P$ and $G$ agree on their first three moments. 